All right, so our script is going to start to grow now, so let's give it a usage line so people know
how to use it because we have a lot to--let's copy it first.
Let's make a script called usage.sh.
And then--
so right now, we're just calling these, but that's OK.
So let's say 'anything below this line with a'
#/ will show up in the usage line
So I'll add a comment with a slash, and say 'Usage:' this is 'usage.sh' and we to have a '--help' flag
to show our usage
and that's optional;
we don't need it.
And then we're also going to have a version.  It's also nice to just put, you know, a one line
sentence about what the thing does.
A command
line script that does something.
But now we need an actual way, a function to convert these style comments into a--
into a--something they can print out on the screen, because since these are comments, they're not going
to print, but we can use some little special magic using grep here.  So you can do a function called
usage.
Get your brackets there and then do 'grep'
Yeah, this the carrot, the carrot pointing up.
So that says:
"At the start of the line, look for things that start with #/", and that's our little regex
thing.
$0--and that's the running script--
our script. 'cut' characters, 4
So one.
One, two, three, four.
So this will start at this letter here, the fourth character, and print everything after it.
So write that and then.
But yeah, so are things still, isn't there?
So it's running stuff, but it's not actually showing our help menu.
Ahh, that's because we need another little command that will do that for you.
So let's add that in here and let's get rid of this because we don't actually want to see that.
But we do want to see our usage line if somebody passes --help.
So this is just a slick little way to do this.
We use this expr command.
And remember, this is all the arguments as a space delimited list.
And if it starts with--if the flag--one of those flags is '--version'...
this thing, I haven't quite shown you yet:
but this will basically just send the output of this expression command into this little special file,
which makes it be silent.
So if this command was successful and we don't see the output, we want to run our usage function,
which will print all of this, minus these comment characters.
So now if we run usage--and actually...
so I should just be able to run 'usage.sh' here...yep!
So if I pass '--help',
And actually our thing is,
we want to get rid of that because we're not too concerned about the first argument right now.
Fail.
There we go.
And we got our usage. So if we look at the script, you see it printed these lines here minus the--the
comments.
So we actually did--do need that version back in there, too. So let's just add both of those.
So if they pass '--version' we'll run the version function.